Vocabulary Chapters 1-4
------------------------------------

The first four chapters of this story shows the challenges and troubles Bilbo Baggins has to endure at the start of the story, but it is just a preview of what is to come. 

Depredation - The act of plundering or pillaging. 

Haughty - Arrogant or superior. 

Flummox - Confused or bewildered. 

Audacious - Adventurous, willing to take risks. 

Devour - To eat eagerly. 

Reverence - A feeling of respect or honor for someone. 

Scarce - Meager, very little of something. 

Outlandish - Weird or unusual in a large way. 

Defray - To take on the expenses of something. 

Purloin - To steal something from someone or something. 

Venerable - Very honored. 

Ingenious - Very smart and clever, showing skill. 

Vocabulary Chapters 5-8
-------------------------------------------

In these chapters Bilbo is involved with the dwarves, and realizing the danger that is involved in deciding to help them. He is also coming to terms with life on the road. 

Gall - To irritate or annoy. 

Brood - To think heavily or moodily on something. 

Haste - Hurry 

Abominable - Terribly bad or awful. 

Onslaught - a quick onset of something bad. 

Clamor - Outcry of a large group of people, constant. 

Scorch - Destroyed by fire. 

Tumult - Confusion or commotion. 

Unimpeachable - Unable to reproach a person or thing. 

Lament - Sadness given voice. 

Wearisome - So boring that you tire of it. 

Loathsome - Incredibly disgusting. 

Vocabulary Chapters 9-11
----------------------------------------

These chapters continue to depict the chaos that surrounds the characters while trying to get back their home. You also get to see the kingly attitude from Thorin Oakenshield, and its affect on those around him. 

Surly - Easily angered. 

Rouse - To waken things or people. 

Jostle - Bump into things roughly. 

Eddy - Water or liquids that flow circularly. 

Ominous - Foreshadowing of bad things to come. 

Vagabond - A person who belongs nowhere and travels. 

Waylay - Hiding and waiting to attack someone. 

Enmity - Feeling very angry or ill towards someone. 

Obscure - Hard to find, hidden. 

Bleak - Something that gives no help, food, or shelter. 

Desolation - A place that is in great decay and disrepair. 

Maraud - To raid in search of treasure. 
